now you should see there is no data on
the hamsa chakra but it is the formless
energy of so many organs which are
looked after by Buddha Mahavira Christ
Shri Krishna
four of them managed by Shri Ganesha
so these genetics are put by Shri
Ganesha because he is the source of
wisdom so first once they spoil their
more adhara the wisdom is finished base
is the fundamentals are finished
that's why immoral life is very
detrimental to our life because we lose
our discretion the discretion is lost
then if you can awaken Shri Ganesha in
the hamsa chakra then suddenly you
belong to the higher race of sahaja
Yogi's it's surprising I have seen
people overnight give up their drugs
very immoral people become extremely
modern because of this chakra being
suddenly awakened and the light of the
Spirit is best expressed through this
chakra in everyday life in the
collective life also one start then
seeing the point as we say like now in
sahaja yoga we have different problems
also say when people first come to
sahaja yoga they start watching other
people and starting finding their faults
what's wrong with them they never see
what they are here for they are not here
to find out falls for the dots but to
correct your own defense so they say oh
this man is no good that man is no good
this is wrong they start creating
problems they'll talk to each other
saying oh this man is not good that man
is not go try to create groups and
things they are here talk for what or
create a politics or for your ascent
some of them if they do not do all this
then they think we should start to make
some money out of it or some sort of a
thing or some start criticizing others
about something which is not their
concern
so they forget because they're just now
coming to sahaja yoga and their genetics
are not established of their wisdom they
start worrying about things which are
not their worry which they should not
bother about then some of them start
thinking oh I am the leader or why am I
not the leader so they start finding
fault with the leadership sometimes
leader also can few know who I am the
leader I can be very stern very
disciplinarian I can control people I
can do this they have come here to learn
how to love to be compassionate to be
tolerant the sense of leadership and
also of obedience both hard is Krishna
if somebody says something to you and if
you obey that person for your
benevolence you will subtle certainly
understand that it is for your good if
some leader says that this is wrong with
you try to see if it is wrong instead of
feeling hurt about it yes it is wrong so
what should I do
how can I improve myself ask the leader
or you can write to me or do anything
but no they will not do it immediately
they write their letter to me saying
this leader is such a such bad fellow
he's so this they ate that money he ate
that thing and all kinds of or else they
may tell people Oh mother listens to
this fellow he is no good he is just
stunning mother story he's a mother
raises her mother is not such a fool
she knows about everything so all these
things that we have gathered from our
previous life even after our second
birth we carried little bit like an egg
becomes a bird but still lots of things
of the egg are hanging onto his body so
you have to cleanse it so at this point
when you have got your realization the
first discussion should be how am I
going to achieve that state of spirit
the pure spirit instead of that also
people get lost because they have no
discussion with this enlightenment first
thing that happens I've seen with people
their eyes are fixed they don't roll
their eyes much now they have very
innocent eyes otherwise they are really
mad those people who go on looking at
everything like this circus is there's
no difference between the mad man and
him we put one mad man he does the same
and a person who is like that does the
same and it's such a crazy thing to do
but immediately I mean it is such a
spontaneous thing it's like the light
coming in the room it is so spontaneous
that you start seeing things clearly
don't know this is not
before in the garden you would go and
collect all the thorns and put them in
your body if that was the situation
never looked at the flowers and suddenly
after realization you'd be amazed you
just see flowers and don't bother about
thoughts or if you find you take them
out there is joy even before realization
and after realization but there's no
capacity to enjoy that capacity comes to
you after realization and the main thing
that happens to you is the discretion
then like this one you just take the
milk of everything but everything your
attitude becomes very different start
seeing things in a different angle like
once we had to go to one very ancient
temple to see some art be my son-in-law
and my daughter we were walking about we
had to walk for miles up the hill and
they were very tired so we went into one
temple and just played on horses they
were so tired at that time I say see
this elephant see how beautiful they are
every one has a different type of a tail
and a different type of a trunk the pose
is are different so many of them are
like that my son-in-law said Baba we are
so tired how are you looking at these
things because attention didn't go to my
tiredness but to those beautiful days
same thing you start sucking in the milk
there is joy but you cannot feel the joy
because the power that subtle power
of divine discretion is not there once
that comes in you start enjoying
everything it's just the same life is
just the same nothing has changed same
house same family same city same
environment but you start enjoying
because the sensitivity of your hamsa
chakra is now only for divine discretion
and you immediately know and then you
don't want to do anything with the
thorns only want to gather flowers and
you know how to gather flowers and you
are in joy so the light of the Spirit
which shines through your I'm such a
tree gives you wisdom wisdom doesn't
mean that you know how to argue things
or you fight with people no it doesn't
mean that wisdom means how you take to
the good side of everything to enjoy it
this is wisdom and that you avoid all
destructive things and take to something
constructive now you are going to say on
a road and is written that there's
danger before realization they words all
right let's see what is dangerous they
jump into it and say that we have what
they wanna by killing themselves such
explanations but a sensible man is on
our danger cope what's the after he
preserves himself he respects his life
because he knows now he has become the
instrument of God so we stop comes to
you
automatically but through experience
then you know this is the right path
through experience you start
understanding nowadays I am telling all
these things to you say if 20 years back
I never talked of these things to them
because I knew if I start talking
they'll say oh she's talking something
out of the blue god knows if it is true
or not but once the wisdom becomes
transparent and you start seeing through
it everything very clearly makes your
mind absolutely clear then anybody who
does things of wisdom you know feel bad
about it on the contrary you thank that
I'm so lucky that I can hear about these
things such nice things and also those
sayings start giving you joy so with the
ear you hear so many things used to hear
the same things might be hearing so much
music everything before also but never
gave you joy
now because of this transformation the
same music which you heard before now
makes you feel as if you are in a
seventh heaven it gives you extra see
the poetry which was quite mundane
ordinary people told me mother it was
such a headache to read William Blake in
those days but now we love it we read it
like Bible because now you develop you
cite new hearing power all these are
called in son sir the a-team Rhea means
the organs which are subtle organs
within us so eyes have a subtle organ
years have a subtle organ and these
settle out and then start everything
such responses
all the surroundings that you just
gather whatever is beautiful say it is
very dark
normally we frightened but if it is very
dark you say oh it's very good how we
are enjoying you know it's such a
venture something we'll go slowly slowly
holding each other's hand
supposing it is very hot then every
somebody says people may start I don't
know what they would do another would
just say it was quite nice day you see
it's nice sometimes to have what is also
very good thing if it is cold the other
way now so this you start enjoying every
aspect which is supposed to be very very
bad for others to you you know the
aspect of that what is to be enjoyed
that part which is to be enjoyed
and once you know how to do it then you
say we are swimming in the ocean of joy
the ocean is the same but now you are
just touching those beautiful drops from
Rosia which are in that ocean and the
rest are worried of getting drowned same
ocean same world that's why they say
it's a Maya but after this discussion is
shining there's no Maya you starting
it's like this supposing you drop
somebody no ocean he'll be so frightened
and he'll die before even he sunk really
but supposing a person there is with all
his things to watch and he is the one
who is going to see all the beauty of
the underworld
he is very nicely secured he's got
with beautiful glasses and all that and
his very nice battles he doesn't have to
bother he just goes there nicely enjoys
everything takes photographs the ocean
is the same for him or for the one who
is dropped in the ocean but the one who
is secured one who has all the
equipment's the one who knows what is to
be seen is enjoying it in the same way
you are equipped with wisdom with
security and you know what you are doing
the same thing starts becoming so very
beautiful and enjoyable
I've seen how sahaja Yogi's enjoy
everything even if somebody is shouting
or saying something in a Hall I've seen
all the sahaja yoga start laughing
laughing love it no he's poor man trying
his devil best to condemn everything and
here all the sahaja Yogi's just laughing
at him doing nothing at did fellow runs
away it is something so they're enjoying
stupidity
so the whole attitude of life is so
changed because of this hamsa chakra and
you are not even aware that you have
developed that wisdom automatically then
you start also consolidating it and
making it your own enlightened faith
because every time you see whatever you
believe in just works out